# FarmEasy---Crop-Yield-Prediction
This project aims to analyze the primitive approach of cultivation and develop a model for crop prediction using machine learning and provide a model for proper crop management after production. We propose an intelligent system that can predict the best possible crops only by providing the present location of a farmer.

In this study, supervised regression rather than classification algorithms were used as the ML models had to predict continuous values of crop yield. Supervised learning trains the model with the labeled dataset. After reviewing the related works, two different machine learning algorithms Random Forest Regression (RFR) and Support Vector Regression (SVR), were chosen for developing the prediction model. Then Voting Regression (VR) was proposed using RFR and SVR as the base model.

A voting regression (VR) is an ensemble machine learning model that combines the predictions from multiple base models. VR calculates the average of prediction from the base models. The proposed VR evaluates the mean of crop yield prediction from RFR and SVR models. VR outperforms the other two regression models in terms of r-squared value, and root mean squared error. VR game best prediction result for predicting the yield of aus, aman, lentil, and maize. The average r-squared value and root mean squared error for predicting the yield of six crops are better than the average of the other two algorithms (82.8% and 21.3%, respectively). Hence, the proposed VR model is the best among the three algorithms for predicting crop yield.
